# Twitter-Sentiment-Analysis-Using-Python

💫 Aim

To develop a sentiment analysis program using Python that parses the tweets fetched from a particular user from Twitter.

💫 Description

Sentiment analysis deals with recognising and classifying opinions and the sentiments within, expressed in the source text. Social media generates a vast amount of sentiment-rich data in tweets, updates, and posts. Sentiment analysis of this data generated by the users is vital in recognising the overall opinion of the userbase. analysing conversations and sharing views which can be implemented in deciding business strategy, political analysis, and assessing public actions. Twitter sentiment analysis is more difficult than general sentiment analysis due to the prevalence of misspellings, slang words, symbols, and emoticons.

This project presents the analysis of the Twitter posts of a particular account using Python alongside Machine Learning. By carrying out sentiment analysis in a specific area, it is possible to identify the effect of that area's information in sentiment classification. This project presents a feature for classifying a user's most recent tweets and visualising them using graphs, charts, and word clouds.

💫 Solution

The project is established upon 2 major aspects :

✅ Machine Learning

Machine learning (ML) is an element of artificial intelligence that analyses mainframe algorithms. Machine learning algorithms make choices and predictions by constructing a model based on sample data without being explicitly programmed. These algorithms are operated in numerous cases, such as in health care, filtering emails, speech detection, and computing. They come in handy in situations where it can be tough or impracticable to develop standard algorithms to accomplish such tasks.

The general steps involved in Machine learning in the context of this project are :

👉 Adding the prerequisite libraries

👉 Model developing

👉 Incorporating the dataset

👉 Exploratory data analysis

👉 Data processing & visualisation

👉 Overall evaluation

✅ Python

Python is a construed, all-purpose programming language. It accentuates code readability with the use of substantial indentation. The language is programmed to help programmers write well-defined, rational code for small and large projects.

The libraries used in this project are :

👉 Tweepy

👉 Text blob

👉 Word Cloud

👉 Pandas

👉 NumPy

👉 Re

👉 Matplotlib

💫 Methodology

✅ Implementation

All the essential Python libraries required for the program are applied. An API object is created to add and authenticate Twitter API credentials provided by the Twitter developers forum. The user then enters the Twitter handle of the account required and the number of recent tweets to extract from the dataset. A data frame is generated to show 5 of the most recent tweets to verify that the right account is being analysed. The text is then formatted to remove any @mentions, symbols, and hyperlinks that may be present in those tweets.

✅ Classification and Analysis

Using the text blob library, the function to obtain the subjectivity and polarity of the tweet is created. Subjectivity and polarity are defined with the help of numerical digits to comprehend their magnitude. A function is created to compute the positive, negative and neutral analysis from the subjectivity and polarity scores. Scores equal to zero are classified as neutral, above zero as positive, and below zero as negative. The tweets that most inclines towards positive and negative sides tweets are further segregated and printed. This segregation is done based on their scores obtained.

✅ Visualisation

A word cloud is generated, a data visualization technique used to indicate text data in which the size of each word denotes its frequency or significance. The dimensions of the word cloud are specified using the word cloud library. Using the Matplotlib library, the tweets are plotted onto a graph according to their subjectivity and polarity. To further simplify this visualisation, the percentage of positive and negative tweets is obtained. This data is colour-coded and again plotted using the Matplotlib library in a bar graph and a pie chart showing the number of positive, negative, and neutral tweets.

The implementation of a Graphical User Interface or GUI has been proposed to simplify the end-user experience. They would only be required to enter the Twitter user handle and the number of recent tweets to be analysed. As mentioned before, the output would be presented using word cloud, data frames, and graphical visualisations.
